you've heard the Elgato stream deck but
have you heard of the ghetto stream deck
today I'm going to show you how to turn
any spare keyboard into a stream deck
whether it's a tiny wireless number pad
a full-size huge custom mechanical
keyboard hell you can even get those
cheap foot pedals from AliExpress and
make your own stream deck pedals by the
end of this video you'll be able to
change scenes in OBS play sound effects
send messages in twitch chat toggle your
studio lighting mute your microphone all
from the keyboard you already have and
the kicker is that none of the keys on
your spare keyboard will interfere with
the keys on your main keyboard so if you
press F on your spare keyboard people
aren't going to think that you're trying
to pay respects you might remember I did
a video on this exact topic years ago in
fact that might be how you found me
because that video did gangbusters so I
was like damn I need to remake that
video and see if I can read create the
same success in that video I literally
programmed my own tool called noobs
Commander just to accomplish this but
nowadays I'm too busy posting on the
internet so I don't think I'm ever going
to update that program this new method
is so much better because news Commander
can only interact with OBS with this
method you could interact with twitch
YouTube you can even post messages to
Discord anything that you want
[Music]
shout out to the sponsor of this video
VIP SCD keys if you just built your very
own gaming PC you can get a Windows 10
Pro license for as little as 16 you can
use the link down below just use any
secure payment method like PayPal use
the code nutty at checkout to get 25 off
they'll send you an activation key right
to your email and you can just pop that
into your Windows settings and you're
good to go those keys can even be
upgraded to Windows 11 for free or if
you just want to install Windows 11
straight off the bat you can pay 22
dollars and get a Windows 11 Pro license
I've been using VIP SCD keys for years
even before they start a sponsoring my
videos never had an issue with any of
the keys so if you want to save some
money well there you go first off you're
gonna need a spare keyboard
no it could be any keyboard don't
worry if it has the same Keys as your
main keyboard because like I said the
keys here will be recognized as a
totally separate device compared to your
main keyboard now you're gonna download
two programs and yes both of these
programs need to be running for this
setup the first is streamer bot now I've
done plenty of tutorials on using
streamerbot and if you've seen those
videos before and you've just written it
off because it looks too complicated
don't worry I'm gonna make this as easy
as possible for you guys so just go over
the website streamer dot Bots and just
download it the second tool you'll need
is hid macros and this is absolutely
required for this to work because this
is the tool that can recognize the
difference between two separate
keyboards the idea is that we're going
to use streamerbot to create all of our
commands so that could be muting our
microphone changing scenes in OBS
posting messages to Twitch chat then
we're going to use hid macros to run the
those commands from a second keyboard so
let's pop into streamer bot first so
we're gonna go and download it from the
website it'll be linked down below just
go ahead and unzip that wherever you
want on your PC and then we'll just open
up streamerbot by clicking
streamer.bot.exe if you already set up
stream robot before you can skip this
section but for everyone else let me
simplify this dog kit UI so it actually
makes sense okay so all you really care
about is this actions tab you can pretty
much ignore all of the other tabs the
actions tab is where you're going to set
all the different commands that you want
to run now the first time you set up
streamerbot we still need to connect it
to OBS and twitch so we'll start with
OBS go over to the stream apps tab go
right click add and just give this a
name obs
set your version to five and then we're
gonna have to set our password so if you
go into obs
go into tools and click on websocket
server settings you want to enable
websocket server and then set a password
so click generate password I'm just I
don't care if you see my password okay
we're just going to copy that go back
into screen robot paste your password
click auto connect and reconnect press
OK and then right click and say connect
and it will stay connected right here if
you did that correctly then we'll be
able to change scenes in OBS toggle
sources on and off filters all that kind
of stuff next we're going to connect it
to Twitch now this is also going to work
with YouTube but we're just gonna do
twitch today to keep it simple so go
over to platforms click on the twitch
Tab and go over to accounts then just
click on log in and a window will pop up
uh that will ask you to authorize just
click authorize and then we'll say
logged in successfully cool and you'll
see your logo right here so if you see
that then you're good one more thing I
forgot you also need to go into the
servers tab into HTTP server turn on
auto start and click Start server you
only need to do that the first time you
set up streamerbot from here on out you
only really care about the actions tab
you can explore the other tabs as you
get more familiar with streamerbot but
for today we only care about the actions
tab so now we can start making our
commands so we'll start with something
simple let's make a command that just
changes to our just chatting scene so
we're going to right click add and give
it a name just chatting
click OK and then the right hand panel
is where you set the things you want
this command to do so you can think of
this like a gigantic stream deck
multi-action that's kind of how
streamerbot works so right click select
OBS and we're gonna go scenes and you
can't oh no sorry we'll select active
scene yep select active scene so this
will change scenes and if you select the
scene drop down this will list all the
scenes I have in OBS yes I have this
many scenes just pretend that uh it's a
normal amount of scenes okay so this one
is my just chatting scene and if I click
test
it should switch to my just chatting
scene and you can add as many actions as
you want so let's just say we want
another action to change back to our
gaming scene so we just right click add
another action we'll say gaming scene
what do we want this to do right click
OBS set active scene and we'll select
our gaming scene mine is called desktop
and press ok so now that we have the
commands that we want to do
we need a way to actually do them
otherwise this video is like useless so
this is where hid macros comes in so
we're gonna go to the hid macros website
you know that if a website uses Times
New Roman we're we're dealing with some
smart people okay so just click on
uh version 2.3 and then unzip this
wherever you want now you can click on
hid macros and uh it should open up
it didn't so uh let's put a cut here
miss editor this cut okay uh we're gonna
right click and say run as administrator
okay perfect first try time every time
you know I'm not redoing that I
apologize okay this looks like some
science engineering project hacking
thing I didn't make this okay my job is
just to make this easy for you guys to
understand so let me break this down
what we're gonna do is we're gonna add a
new macro okay and we're gonna give this
one the same name as uh the action
instrument bot just so we know what it
does so we'll call it just chatting now
if you click on the scan button you can
input a key on your keyboard okay so I'm
gonna press one
now it's going to tell us what key we
pressed here and it's going to tell us
the ID of the keyboard that is
associated with that key because like I
said hid macros knows that A1 is coming
from this keyboard and not a one from
our other keyboard now we just need to
tell hid macros that when I press the
one on this keyboard I want to run the
just chatting action that we made in
streamerbot so we'll select run
application but what do we actually put
in this box this was the missing piece
of the puzzle that prevented me from
making this video for years but
thankfully one of the moderators on the
Discord server created this local script
action Handler okay so if we download
the zip file and also follow the
instructions it says that we need to
install node.js so just click on the
link follow that and follow the
instructions there but after you've
installed node.js you're gonna get this
zip file so go ahead and unzip this
wherever you want and inside this folder
you're going to see a build dot bat file
double click on this and then a window
will pop up just click run anyway and
you should see this window guys again
let me apologize the UI just gets
straighter and shooter as the video goes
on okay but that is the price of free
software but it's really simple it's
going to ask you to put in an action
name and what that's referring to is the
name of the action or the command that
you put inside of streamer button so we
want to run this just chatting to change
to our just chatting scene so we'll just
type in just chatting and then it will
ask you for a desired file name do not
put a space in the file name here okay
it won't work just if you want to see
what happens you can try it it won't
work okay but we're gonna put in just
chatting
press enter and it's going to create two
files here okay now it's gonna have this
justchatting.vbs whenever you run this
VBS file it doesn't matter how you run
it however you run this we can just
double click on it
it will run our streamer bot action so
if you can see where I'm going with this
now that we have this file that we can
execute to change scenes we can just go
back into hid macros and navigate to
that file inside here so that file
actions Handler and select all files and
just select that VBS file and now
whenever I press the one on this
keyboard
it's going to switch scenes and it's not
going to be recognized as a one on our
main keyboard it's just it's like it's
its own button now and we can just rinse
and repeat that same process so like
let's say when we press two we want to
switch to our gaming scene we'll go to
over to hid macros We'll add a new macro
and we're gonna call it gaming
yeah let's just call it gaming okay fine
click scan press two
and then we're gonna go over to build
click on build it's gonna pull this
window up we're gonna name our scene
it's called gaming scene press enter and
then call this gaming and now go over to
hid macros we're going to select run
application and we're just going to
navigate to that gaming.vbs so now if I
press one
goes to just chatting press two
goes back to our gaming scene I'll do
one more example that does a little bit
more now so we'll just add one more
action and we're gonna call this one
countdown so this is going to do a three
two one countdown in twitch chat so we
can just right click go over to Twitch
chat and we'll do send message to
channel we'll say three press OK and
then we can add delays so we'll go to
core add a delay of one second which is
a thousand
and we'll just rinse and repeat okay so
make a duplicate and this will say two
now we've got a three two one countdown
Next Step go over to hid macros we'll
create a new macro call this one
countdown and scan we'll click the three
on our keyboard and we're gonna run an
application uh we have to make the back
file so go over to the build.bat counts
down
call it countdown
and then just bind that to hid macros so
select countdown.vbs so now if we go
over to Twitch chat and just press three
it's gonna do our three two one
countdown for us so now you have access
to everything that you could do in
streamer bot so I just built a key on
the five key that
does these really wholesome sound
effects literally make actions to do
anything you want and it will never
interfere with the keys on your main
keyboard and if you want to take it a
step further you could like cut out
little icons and Like Glue them onto the
buttons If you want to know what the
buttons do but with that you now have
your very own ghetto stream deck guys I
hope you enjoyed that video come follow
me on Twitch I talk about all this type
of stuff three days a week so you can
ask me any question you want there you
can also join the Discord if you have
any problems setting this up and also
make sure to join the patreon uh I've
released a whole bunch of widgets for
you guys to download we recently just uh
released the Zelda Ocarina widget that
you guys can download
um but other than that thank you guys
for watching and I'll see you guys next
week